[[kicad_scripts]]
# kicad_scripts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* This is a number of *CLI* scripts written in various languages like
*__c, bash, perl, and python__.* These scripts are workarounds for
things that are not easy to do or take a long time to do in the kicad
GUI.
* Most of the script *modifies* either the *_sch or kicad_pcb_* files
directly. Thus modifing the source code to eeschema or pcbnew require
closing the program and relaunching...
* As questions come up regarding how to run programs I will write a
quick *HOW TO* or post the *_program.pl -help_* :)
* [[also-very-interested-in-hearing-what-other-people-would-like-to-see]]
Also, very interested in hearing what other people would like to see
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[width="100%",cols="33%,67%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|File |What it does
|README.md |The file you are reading

|kicad_sch_standardize.sh |Example of how you can used
kicad_sch_font_resize.pl and kicad_sch_page_order.pl

|kicad_sch_update_bom.sh |Example of how you can use kicad_bom2sch.pl

|kicad_pcb_change_ref_num.sh |Changes refence number based on
sheetnumber*100 numbering style

|kicad_pcb_rename_references.sh |Same as above but for a range

|bom2groupedCsv.xsl |This is the format for a bom used in
kicad_bom2sch.pl

|kicad_bom2sch.pl |Takes the input of a CSV bom file and updates fields
in the schematic to match exactly

|kicad_sch_font_resize.pl |CLI program using perl to modify the font
sizes of a schematic

|kicad_sch_page_order.pl |CLI program to change to order of the pages in
a hierarchial schematic
|=======================================================================

[[kicad_sch_standardize.sh]]
kicad_sch_standardize.sh
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NAME

kicad_sch_standardize.sh - Kicad Project schematic global font
standardizer

SYNOPSIS

kicad_sch_standardize.sh project_name

DESCRIPTION

This tool is designed to take the top level of a schematic in Kicad and
find all assoiated schematics and run kicad_sch_font_resize.pl on each
of the schematics. Line 40 of this script can be modified to fit your
needs. This line holds a few of the fonts that can be changed in your
project schematics. For full documentation of what fonts can be changed
run help on: kicad_sch_font_resize.pl -help

OPTIONS

none

FILES

none

ENVIRONMENT

Requires perl and kicad_sch_page_order.pl to be in you path

DIAGNOSTICS

none

BUGS

Sure there might be some, I'm not perfect, just hacking my way on

AUTHOR

Richard Howlett @ I get too much email

SEE ALSO

kicad_sch_font_resize.pl, kicad_sch_update_bom.sh,
kicad_pcb_change_ref_num.sh, kicad_pcb_rename_references.sh

[[kicad_sch_font_resize.pl]]
kicad_sch_font_resize.pl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NAME

kicad_sch_font_resize.pl - Kicad Schematic global font modifier

SYNOPSIS

kicad_sch_font_resize.pl -file schematic_name.sch [OPTION VALUE]

DESCRIPTION

This script is used resize all fonts for a given attribute for the given
schmatic file. This only works on the file give, it does not modify
child schematics. Font changes are applied globally for every instances
of the given option(s). This script does not modify the original
Schematic file. This scripts generates a new file and sends it to STDOUT

OPTIONS

[width="52%",cols="33%,31%,36%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Value |Description
|-help | |this message

|-file |file_name |KiCad input file .sch format [REQUIRED] (add full
path if needed)

|-sheet |int |Change the text size of all Sheet Name(s)

|-sch |int |Change the text size of all sheet's Schematic Name(s)

|-pin |int |Change the text size of all sheet's Port/Pin Name(s)

|*Text Lables*

|-glabel |int |Change the text size of all Global Label(s)

|-hlabel |int |Change the text size of all Hierachial Label(s)

|-wlabel |int |Change the text size of all Wire Label(s)

|-note |int |Change the text size of all Note(s)

|*Power Symbols*

|-power |int |Change the text size on all Power symbol(s)

|*Schematic Symbols Attributes*

|-ref |int |Change the text size of all symbol Reference Name(s)

|-value |int |Change the text size of all symbol Value Name(s)

|-footprint |int |Change the text size of all symbol Footprint Name(s)

|-doc |int |Change the text size of all symbol Document Name(s)

|*Debugging*

|-debug |int |If things don't go your way (=1) goes to STDERR

|-verbose | |Flow information with no data and goes to STDERR
|=======================================================================

FILES

-file requires a Kicad schematics file. Full path might be required.

ENVIRONMENT

Requires perl

DIAGNOSTICS

-debug and -verbose options should send info the STDERR

BUGS

Sure there might be some, I'm not perfect, just hacking my way on

AUTHOR

Richard Howlett @ I get too much email

SEE ALSO

TBD

EXAMPLE

$>(path to script)/kicad_sch_font_resize.pl -file filename.sch
-hlabel=50 > temp.sch $>eeschem temp.sch
